Engdocs 1067 (#16585)
docker/docs: compose/environment-variables/envvars-precedence.md

---
title: Environment variables precedence
description: Scenario Overview illustrating how environment variables are resolved in Compose
keywords: compose, environment, env file
redirect_from:
- /compose/envvars-precedence/
---

> When you set the same environment variable in multiple files, there’s a precedence rule used by Compose. It aims to resolve the value for the variable in question.

Reviewer: As env variables could be defined in multiple ways and not only from files, it should be better to user sources or a synonym, wdyt?
```suggestion
When you set the same environment variable from multiple sources, there’s a precedence rule used by Compose. It aims to resolve the value for the variable in question.
```

Author: Oo yes, good point. Sources it is!

6. Set using an [`.env` file](set-environment-variables.md#substitute-with-an-env-file) placed at base of your project directory
7. Set in a container image in the [ENV directive](../../engine/reference/builder.md#env).
   Having any `ARG` or `ENV` setting in a `Dockerfile` evaluates only if there is no Docker Compose entry for `environment`, `env_file` or `run --env`.

## Simple example

In the example below, we set a different value for the same environment variable in an `.env` file and with the `environment` attribute in the Compose file:

```console
$ cat ./Docker/api/api.env
NODE_ENV=test

$ cat docker-compose.yml
services:
  api:
    image: 'node:6-alpine'
    env_file:
     - ./Docker/api/api.env
    environment:
     - NODE_ENV=production
```

The environment variable defined with the `environment` attribute takes precedence.

```console
$ docker compose exec api node

> process.env.NODE_ENV
'production'
```

> Specifics for NodeJS containers
>
> If you have a `package.json` entry for `script:start` like
> `NODE_ENV=test node server.js`, then this overrules any setting in your

> > `docker-compose.yml` file.

Author: Agreed, making it generic is a good idea. Have added and adapted
